.TH "V120" "8" "July 2016" "Highland Technology, Inc." "v120irqd API Reference"
.SH "NAME"

\fBv120irqd\fR - V120 interrupt dispatch daemon
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.B v120irqd
.RB [ -dfknV? "] [" --debug "] [" --fakeok "] [" --foreground ]
.RB [ --novme "] [" --help "] [" --usage "] [" --version ]

.SH "ARGUMENTS"
.P
\fB-d, --debug\fR
.RS 4
Debug mode: provide additional logging information.
.RE
.P
\fB-f, --fakeok\fR
.RS 4
Allow clients to send fake interrupts
.RE
.P
\fB-k, --foreground\fR
.RS 4
Run in foreground. Default is to fork to background.
.RE
.P
\fB-n, --novme\fR
.RS 4
No VME interrupts. Implies --fakeok
.RE
.P
\fB-?, --help\fR
.RS 4
Give this help list
.RE
.P
\fB--usage\fR
.RS 4
Give a short usage message
.RE
.P
\fB-V, --version\fR
.RS 4
Print program version
.RE
.
.SH "SETUP"
.P
To use v120irqd(1), install it and make sure that it is executed as a
part of the system startup process, which varies from system to system
(init, systemd, upstart) and as a result the installer makes no attempt
to handle this step. Additionally, v120irqd(1) makes extensive use of
syslog functionality to provide diagnostic messages. These will go into
/var/log/syslog by default; a sample rsyslogd file for diverting
non-critical messages to /var/log/v120irqd.log is provided as well.
.P
\fC
.nf
# 30-v120irqd.conf
#
# This rsyslog filter file will redirect all v120irqd messages to
# /var/log/v120irqd.log.  It will suppress any messages of severity
# lower than ERROR from appearing in the main syslog.
#
# Copy this to /etc/rsyslog.d to use it.  It must have a lower start
# number than the default rules, usually 50-default.conf.

if $programname == "v120irqd" then {
        action(type="omfile" File="/var/log/v120irqd.log")
        if $syslogseverity > 3 then ~
}
.fi
\fR
.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Rob Gaddi - v120irqd and its documentation
.P
Paul Bailey - man page transcription
.
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright Highland Technology, 2015. License 3-clause Modified BSD.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.
.BR v120irqd (7),
.BR v120 (7),
.BR v120irqd_ack (3),
.BR v120irqd_client (3),
.BR v120irqd_getinterrupt (3),
.BR v120irqd_release (3),
.BR v120irqd_request (3),
.BR v120irqd_status (3)
