.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii v120.1
.\"
.TH V120 1 "APRIL 2013" "Highland Technology, Inc." "V120 API Reference"
.SH NAME
v120 \- miscellaneous utilities for the V120.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B v120
.RB [ -efFv ]
[\fB-a \fIawidth\fR]
[\fB-d \fIdwidth\fR]
[\fB-m \fIcrate_no\fR]
[\fB-s \fIspeed\fR]
[\fB-S \fIslot0\fR]
.IR "subcommand " [ args ]
.P
.BI "v120 flash-upgrade " upgrade_file
.br
.BI "v120 reset"
.br
.BI "v120 write " "address " [ value [ ... ]]
.br
.BI "v120 read " "address " [ count ]
.br
.BI "v120 sysreset"
.br
.BI "v120 loopback-upgrade " upgrade_file
.br
.BI "v120 requester [" bus ]
.br
.BI "v120 scan"
.br
.BI "v120 reinit"
.P
.BR "v120 report flash" | id | ident | power | uptime | status | pci | pcie
.br
.BI "v120 report monitor [" monitor ]
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
v120 is a utility to access a V120 VME crate controller or a V124 VXI crate
controler.
.P
.B v120 flash-upgrade
upgrades a V120 with \fIupgrade_file\fR, which is a binary file provided
by the vendor to upgrade the firmware.  It will usually have a name like
22E120B_upgrade.bin.  DO NOT use an S-Record file (also provided by the
vendor); these are used for flash upgrades via an ASCII protocol over
TCP/IP.  After the subcommand has completed, you can verify the flash
status by running \fBv120 report flash\fR.  You must run \fBv120 reset\fR
for the new firmware to take effect.
.P
.B v120 reset
reboots the V120 firmware. The \fB-m\fR option must be used, and it may
not be set to \fBA\fR.
.B WARNING:
The V120 Linux driver does not yet support hot-plugging a V120.  You
should reboot your computer before connecting again with the V120.
.P
.B v120 write
writes sequential words to VME beginning at VME address \fIaddress\fR.
If \fIvalue\fR is not provided on the command line, standard input will
be parsed for values to write. If the \fB-e\fR option is used, additional
VME status will print to standard error. If no options are used, the
defaults will be \fB-a16 -dw -s1\fR.
.P
.B v120 read
reads sequential words from VME beginning at VME address \fIaddress\fR.
If \fIcount\fR is not provided, then only one word will be read.  The
read values will be printed in "0x" hexadecimal format to the standard
output, delimited by spaces.  If the \fB-e\fR option is used, additional
VME status will print to standard error. If no options are used, the
defaults will be \fB-a16 -dw -s1\fR.
.P
.B v120 sysreset
asserts the SYSRESET signal from the V120.  The \fB-m\fR option must be
used, and it may not be set to \fBA\fR.
.P
.B v120 loopback-upgrade
upgrades a V120's "V129" FPGA image with \fIupgrade_file\fR. The \fB-m\fR
option must be used, and it may not be set to \fBA\fR. This is
used internally by the V120 developers.
.P
.B v120 requester
sets or queries the V120 requester status.  \fIbus\fR is in range 0 to
3.  If \fIbus\fR is unused, the command is a query, printing the info
to the standard output.  If \fIbus\fR includes a \fB-f\fR option, FAIR is
turned on for that bus. Otherwise FAIR is turned off.  Using the \fB-S\fR
option will assert the system controller state, whether the command is
a set or a query.  Currently the command works for only one \fIbus\fR
at a time.
.P
.B v120 scan
scans the entire A16 (and A24 too, if \fB-a24\fR is used) VME address
space for the presence of VME cards. Expect the scan to take a couple
minutes if \fB-a24\fR is used.
.P
.B v120 reinit
is a work-around for hotplug problems.  If a V120 disconnects from the
computer, either by \fBv120 reset\fR or by physically removing a cable,
then the PCI config space will be lost.  This attempts to reconnect to
the V120 (\fIafter\fR physical connection is reestablished!!!) by
over-writing the PCI config space with saved values.
.I Use this subcommand at your own risk!
.P
.B v120 report
reports various information about the V120 status.  Sub-subcommands are
.RS 4
.B flash
.RS 4
Checksum the flash and print the contents of each valid image's header.
Also print whether the current running image came from the upgrade
portion of the flash or the fallback portion.
.RE
.BR ident | id
.RS 4
Report identifying information about a V120.
.RE
.B power
.RS 4
Show power supply status
.RE
.B uptime
.RS 4
Print number of seconds a crate has been in its current boot cycle.
Note that this is not necessarily the number of seconds that a crate
has been powered on.
.RE
.B status
.RS 4
Print information parsed mainly from a V120's STATUS register.
.RE
.B monitor
.RS 4
Get monitor info for one or all of the V120 monitors. \fImonitor\fR is
in the range of 0 to 3.  If \fImonitor\fR is not used, then all four
monitors will be used.
.RE
.BR pcie | pci
.RS 4
Dump the entire PCIe monitor block to standard output and reset it.  This
is used internally by the V120 developers as a diagnostic tool.  If
\fB-m\fR is used, it may not be set to \fBA\fR.
.RE
.RE
.
.SH OPTIONS
\fB-m\fI crate\fR,
\fB--crate_no\fR=\fIcrate\fR
.RS 4
Specify the crate number.  \fIcrate\fR is \fB0\fR to \fB15\fR, or \fBA\fR
to perform the command on all crates.  If this option is not used, then
the target will be the lowest-number connected crate.
The \fBflash-upgrade\fR, \fBloopback-upgrade\fR, \fBreset\fR, and
\fBsysreset\fR subcommands require the crate to be specified. They do not
permit \fB-m A\fR. The \fBreport pci\fR subcommand also does not support
\fB-m A\fR.
.RE
.P
\fB-a\fI awidth\fR,
\fB--awidth\fR=\fIawidth\fR
.br
\fB-d\fI dwidth\fR,
\fB--dwidth\fR=\fIdwidth\fR
.br
\fB-s\fI speed\fR,
\fB--speed\fR=\fIspeed\fR
.RS 4
For \fBv120 read\fR and \fBv120 write\fR, set the address modifier, data
width, and speed of the VME transaction. \fIawidth\fR is one of
.BR 16 ", " 24 ", or " 32 .
\fIdwidth\fR is one of:
.B b
for 8 bits,
.B w
for 16 bits,
.B l
for 32 bits, and
.B s
for 32 bits split into two D16 transactions. \fIspeed\fR is \fB0\fR to
\fB3\fR, with 0 being the slowest and 3 being the fastest.
.P
For \fBv120 scan\fR, if \fB-a24\fR is used, then the A24 address space
will be scanned *in addition to* the A16 address space.  The other
address modifiers, data width and speed options are ignored.
.RE
.P
.BR -b ", " --binary
.RS 4
For \fBv120 read\fR and \fBv120 write\fR, if using standard in/out
instead of command-line values, print or accept binary data instead of
string expressions.
.RE
.P
.BR -e ", " --vmeprint
.RS 4
For the \fBread\fR and \fBwrite\fR subcommands, print some debugging info
about the VME transaction to standard error.
.RE
.P
.BR -f ", " --fpga
.RS 4
For the \fBreset\fR subcommand, only reset the FPGA registers.
.RE
.P
.BR -F ", " --fair
.RS 4
For the \fBrequester\fR subcommand, set bus to "fair".  The \fIbus\fR
argument must be included.
.RE
.P
\fB-S\fI slot0\fR,
\fB--slot0\fR=\fIslot0\fR
.RS 4
For the \fBrequester\fR subcommand, assert whether the V120 is system
controller or not.  If \fIslot0\fR is one of "1yYtT", the V120 is set
as the system controller.  If \fIslot0\fR is on of "0nNfF", the V120 is
no longer the system controller.  If the option is unused, then the
system controller status will remain unchanged.  This option is
independent of whether you use the \fBrequester\fR subcommand as a
set or a query.
.RE
.P
.BR -v ", " --verbose
.RS 4
Reserved, in case we wish to add a verbose-mode option.
.RE
.P
.BR -V ", " --version
.br
.BR -? ", " --help
.RS 4
Show version/help
.RE
.SH BUGS
As of 4/2013 the V120 is not hot-pluggable.
.SH AUTHOR
Paul Bailey <pbailey@highlandtechnology.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "V120 Technical Manual" ,
.BR v120 (7)
for info about C-language access to the V120.
