.TH "V120" "3" "July 2016" "Highland Technology, Inc." "V120 API Reference"
.SH "NAME"
\fBv120_dma_status\fR \- Get some DMA diagnostic info from previous DMA transfer

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
\fB
#include <V120.h>

int v120_dma_status(V120_HANDLE *v120, struct v120_dma_status_t *status);
\fR
.fi

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.P
\fIv120_dma_status\fR is the C equivalent to reading the V120's sysfs
\fIdma\fR file.  It returns low-level debug info with respect to the most
recent DMA transaction. It was intended for use by the V120 developers.
.P
\fIv120\fR is a V120 handle returned from either \fIv120_open()\fR or
\fIv120_next\fR.
.P
\fIstatus\fR is a pointer to a \fIstruct v120_dma_status_t\fR defined
in \fIV120.h\fR as
.P
\fC
.nf
struct v120_dma_status_t {
        uint32_t status;
        uint32_t vme_acc;
        uint64_t erraddr;
        uint64_t lastvme;
        /* ... et al. fields reserved for expansion */
};
.fi
\fR
.P
\fIstatus\fR
.RS 4
Contents of tha DMA block's STATUS register
.RE
.P
\fIvme_acc\fR
.RS 4
Status of the last VME access attempted.  This is fast moving status
information while the DMA transfer is occuring, but will be the
information on the VME failure if \fIV120_DMA_STATUS_VMEERR\fR is set in
\fIstatus\fR.
.RE
.P
\fIerraddr\fR
.RS 4
Address of the DMA descriptor in which an error, indicated by one of the
error bits in \fIstatus\fR
.RE
.P
\fIlastvme\fR
.RS 4
Address of the last VME access attempted.  This is fast moving status
information while the DMA transfer is occuring, but will be the address
of the VME failure if \fIV120_DMA_STATUS_VMEERR\fR is set in \fIstatus\fR.
.RE
.SS "status"
.P
The \fIstatus\fR field uses the following flags:
.P
\fBV120_DMA_STATUS_IFLAG\fR
.RS 4
The state of the DMA controller interrupt flag.
.RE
.P
\fBV120_DMA_STATUS_VAERR\fR
.RS 4
The DMA chain terminated because the \fBVME\fR address was not divisible
by the VME transfer size. \fIerraddr\fR will contain the address of the
failed descriptor.
.RE
.P
\fBV120_DMA_STATUS_BAERR\fR
.RS 4
The DMA chain terminated because the \fBbus\fR address was not divisible
by the VME transfer size. \fIerraddr\fR will contain the address of the
failed descriptor.
.RE
.P
\fBV120_DMA_STATUS_LENERR\fR
.RS 4
The DMA chain terminated because the DMA descriptor had a zero length, or
a length not divisible by the VME transfer size. \fIerraddr\fR will
contain the address of the failed descriptor.
.RE
.P
\fBV120_DMA_STATUS_CHKERR\fR
.RS 4
The DMA chain terminated because the DMA descriptor had a bad checksum.
\fIerraddr\fR will contain the address of the failed descriptor.
.RE
.P
\fBV120_DMA_STATUS_VMEERR\fR \fI*\fR
.RS 4
The DMA chain terminated due to a VME error.  \fIerraddr\fR will contain
the address of the descriptor that failed. \fIlastvme\fR will contain the
VME address that failed.  \fIvme_acc\fR will have more information about
the transfer.
.P
\fI*\fR Note that any error except for VME_STATUS_VMEERR suggests
a bug in either the V120 or V120 driver.
.RE
.P
\fBV120_DMA_STATUS_OK\fR
.RS 4
The DMA chain completed successfully.
.RE
.P
In addition to the above flags, the \fIstatus\fR field uses the following
operators:
.P
\fBV120_DMA_STATUS_DCOMP\fR(\fIstatus\fR)
.RS 4
will return the number of descriptors that have been completed.
.RE
.P
\fBV120_DMA_STATUS_DFETCH\fR(\fIstatus\fR)
.RS 4
will return the number of descriptors that have been fetched.
.RE
.SS "vme_acc"
.P
The \fIvme_acc\fR field uses the following flags:
.P
\fBV120_DMA_VMEACC_AF\fR
.RS 4
A transaction cannot complete due to a failure to win arbitration on the
VME bus.
.RE
.P
\fBV120_DMA_VMEACC_BTO\fR
.RS 4
A transaction cannot complete before the bus timer expires
.RE
.P
\fBV120_DMA_VMEACC_RETRY\fR
.RS 4
A transaction completed with a RETRY response
.RE
.P
\fBV120_DMA_VMEACC_BERR\fR
.RS 4
A transaction completted with a BERR response
.RE
.P
\fBV120_DMA_VMEACC_DTACK\fR
.RS 4
A transaction completed with a DTACK response
.RE
.P
In addition to the above flags, the \fIvme_acc\fR field uses the
following operator:
.P
\fBV120_DMA_VMEACC_TIMER\fR(\fIvme_acc\fR)
.RS 4
will return the number of 8-ns clock ticks that the transaction took to
complete.

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
\fIv120_dma_status()\fR will return zero if \fIstatus\fR is filled in,
or -1 if there was an error.  If the return value is -1, \fIerrno\fR will
be set.
.P
.SH "ERRORS"
.SH "BUGS"
.SH "EXAMPLE"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR v120 (7)
.BR v120_open (3)
.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Paul Bailey - libV120 and documentation
