.TH "V120" "3" "July 2016" "Highlandtechnolgy, Inc." "V120 API Reference"
.SH "NAME"
\fBv120_dma_xfr\fR \- Function to perform a DMA transfer

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
\fB
#include <V120.h>
int v120_dma_xfr(V120_HANDLE *v120, struct v120_dma_desc_t *desc);
\fR
.fi

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.P
\fIv120_dma_xfr\fR transfers a DMA chain described by \fIhdr\fR.
.P
\fIv120\fR is a pointer to a V120 handle returned from either
\fIv120_open\fR or \fIv120_next\fR.
.P
\fIdesc\fR points to the first element of a linked list of \fIstruct
v120_dma_desc_t\fR defined in \fIV120.h\fR
as
.P
\fC
.nf
struct v120_dma_desc_t {
        /* private fields */
        \...
        uint32_t flags;
        uintptr_t ptr;
        uint32_t size;
        uintptr_t next;
        uint64_t vme_address;
};
.fi
\fR
.P
\fIflags\fR
.RS 4
Control flags for the entire transaction chain (see below).
.RE
.P
\fIptr\fR
.RS 4
Pointer to the memory on the computer that will receive data from VME
(if performing reads) or that contains data to send to VME (if performing
writes).
.RE
.P
\fIsize\fR
.RS 4
Size of data or buffer at \fIptr\fR.
.RE
.P
\fInext\fR
.RS 4
Pointer to the next \fIstruct v120_dma_desc_t\fR on this chain, or
(uintptr_t)0 if this is the last member.
.RE
.P
\fIvme_address\fR
.RS 4
VME address to write to/read from.
.RE
.P
.SS "flags"
.P
\fBV120_DMA_CTL_HOLD\fR
.RS 4
Prevent increasing the address on the VME bus (useful for FIFO accesses).
.RE
.P
\fBV120_DMA_CTL_WRITE\fR
.RS 4
If this flag is used, the transaction is from the computer to the VME
card.  If it is clear, the transaction is from the VME card to the
computer.
.RE
.P
Additionally, the \fIflags\fR field must specify address width,
data-width, and endianness, using the macros below (described in greater
detail in
.BR V120_PD (3)).
.P
Speed:
.RS 4
\fBV120_SMAX\fR,
\fBV120_SFAST\fR,
\fBV120_SMED\fR,
\fBV120_SSLOW\fR
.RE
.P
Endianness:
.RS 4
\fBV120_EAUTO\fR,
\fBV120_EBYTE\fR,
\fBV120_ESHORT\fR,
\fBV120_ELONG\fR
.RE
.P
Data width:
.RS 4
\fBV120_D32\fR,
\fBV120_D16\fR
.RE
.P
Address modifier:
.RS 4
\fBV120_A16\fR,
\fBV120_A24\fR,
\fBV120_A32\fR
.RE


.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.P
Zero is returned upon success, -1 on failure.  If there was a failure,
then errno will be set.
.SH "ERRORS"
.SH "BUGS"
.SH "EXAMPLE"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR v120 (7)
.BR V120_PD (3)
.BR v120_open (3)
.BR v120_dma_status (3)
.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Paul Bailey
